Now let's actually put this into practice and jump
back into ksql and see how we can use these aggregate functions.
Returning to our workspace,
we're going to start by taking a look at how to use sum.
So we already have a purchase stream.
So we're simply going to select
currency and sum the amount for each of those currencies in
the stream from purchases and we're going to group by currency.
So this group by is going to go ahead and aggregate and allow us to say by currency,
how much value have we seen?
Let this run for just a moment and you'll see
that these values are going to continue to update.
So this is not a static thing.
So we're going to see the same currency value repeat itself multiple times.
So I'm going to go ahead and cancel this query so we can look through here.
So let's look at the renminbi.
So we have 2450768 and let's look for
the previous time that that printed out and here we can see it here, 1832064.
So as time is going on,
essentially what's going on is ksql is essentially taking all of the events,
finding the currency code for it,
and then adding to the sum of it.
This is similar to what we saw with FAUST.
Now, what if we wanted to use a histogram?
This would allow us to count the number of occurrences
for a given value over a period of time as it says here.
So let's go ahead and see what that might look like.
We're going to just modify the previous query
to actually go ahead and add in this histogram.
So we're also going to name this sum amount as total amount,
just so it's easier to refer to.
I just want to show the syntax for those of you who aren't as familiar with sequel.
You can alias fields.
We're also going to say histogram of currency as num purchases.
Let's see how this works.
So what's nice about this is we can actually see
now not only the total value of purchases.
So let's go ahead and cancel this.
So for US dollars,
this is the total amount of value that we processed.
But not only that, I can see how many times I have seen an event of type USD.
Same thing with Canadian dollars, Euros,
Great British pounds, Australian dollars,
and so on and so forth.
So the histogram function would be really useful for that.
Finally, let's take a look at top k. So let's say we wanted to see
the top five purchases of the last 30 seconds.
Well, we could do again, a select query.
So we're going to select by currency.
Let's have five values by amount from
the purchases stream and we're going to use a tumbling window here,
just want us to reset every 30 seconds
and we're going to group by currency so that the aggregation is performed.
So that currency is our key.
All right, and this is pretty cool.
If we actually let this run, you'll see we're going to hold
up to five transactions per currency.
In the 30-second mark,
you're going to see this reset.
So you can see most of our currencies have
almost at least have five transactions at this point.
Any moment now, at the 30-second mark,
this is going to reset.
You're going to see these arrays empty out
because that tumbling window is expired. There you go.
So you see here,
that these are the top five transactions per currency, right?
Then after that 30-second window expired,
we had to start over again.
So for each of the currencies,
these are the top five transactions and some of which,
some of these currencies didn't even have five transactions attract,
but you'll actually notice that as these keys repeat,
so we have USD here and we have USD here,
let's see if the keys change.
So yes, you can see on this line.
The fifth largest transaction was 149711 but here,
it's now been updated to 149819.
So we can see that the top five is continually being updated.
All right, and that's the demonstration of aggregates.
There are many other functions and I strongly recommend that you go
ahead and take a look at the documentation to see what's available.
This is one of the more powerful features of ksql is
being able to actually go ahead and use these aggregate functions
to save yourself a lot of time and effort that you'd otherwise
normally have to spend building your own custom application.